## **Sentiment Analysis on MySQL with MindsDB and OpenAI** 🛫

In this tutorial, we create a predictive model to infer emotions behind a text, a task also known as sentiment analysis.

We use a table from our MySQL public demo database, so let’s start by connecting MindsDB to it:

```css
CREATE DATABASE mysql_demo_db
WITH ENGINE = 'mysql',
PARAMETERS = {
    "user": "user",
    "password": "MindsDBUser123!",
    "host": "db-demo-data.cwoyhfn6bzs0.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com",
    "port": "3306",
    "database": "public"
};
```

Now that we’ve connected our database to MindsDB, let’s query the data to be used in the example:

```plaintext
SELECT *
FROM mysql_demo_db.amazon_reviews
LIMIT 3;
```

Let’s create a model table to identify sentiment for all reviews:

```plaintext
CREATE MODEL sentiment_classifier_model
PREDICT sentiment
USING
  engine = 'openai',
  prompt_template = 'describe the sentiment of the reviews
                     strictly as "positive", "neutral", or "negative".
                     "I love the product":positive
                     "It is a scam":negative
                     "{{review}}.":';
```

In practice, the `CREATE MODEL` statement triggers MindsDB to generate an AI table called `sentiment_classifier_model` that uses the OpenAI integration to predict a column named `sentiment`. The model lives inside the default `mindsdb` project. In MindsDB, projects are a natural way to keep artifacts, such as models or views, separate according to what predictive task they solve. You can learn more about MindsDB projects [**here**](https://docs.mindsdb.com/sql/project).

The `USING` clause specifies the parameters that this handler requires.

*   The `engine` parameter defines that we use the `openai` engine.
*   The `prompt_template` parameter conveys the structure of a message that is to be completed with additional text generated by the model.

Once the `CREATE MODEL` statement has started execution, we can check the status of the creation process with the following query:

```plaintext
SELECT * FROM models
WHERE name = 'sentiment_classifier_model';
```

It may take a while to register as complete depending on the internet connection. Once the creation is complete, the behavior is the same as with any other AI table – you can query it either by specifying synthetic data in the actual query:

```plaintext
SELECT review, sentiment
FROM sentiment_classifier_model
WHERE review = 'It is ok.';
```

Or by joining with another table for batch predictions:

```plaintext
SELECT input.review, output.sentiment
FROM mysql_demo_db.amazon_reviews AS input
JOIN sentiment_classifier_model AS output
LIMIT 3;
```

Or by joining with another table for batch predictions:

## **Leverage the NLP Capabilities with MindsDB**

By integrating databases and OpenAI using MindsDB, developers can easily extract insights from text data with just a few SQL commands. These powerful natural language processing (NLP) models are capable of answering questions with or without context and completing general prompts.

Furthermore, these models are powered by large pre-trained language models from OpenAI, so there is no need for manual development work. Ultimately, this provides developers with an easy way to incorporate powerful NLP capabilities into their applications while saving time and resources compared to traditional ML development pipelines and methods. All in all, MindsDB makes it possible for developers to harness the power of OpenAI efficiently!

MindsDB is now the fastest-growing open-source applied machine-learning platform in the world. Its community continues to contribute to more than 70 data-source and ML-framework integrations. Stay tuned for the upcoming features - including more control over the interface parameters and fine-tuning models directly from MindsDB!

Experiment with OpenAI models within MindsDB and unlock the ML capability over your data in minutes. Remember to [**sign-up for a free demo account**](https://cloud.mindsdb.com/register/nlp) and follow the tutorials, perhaps this time using your data.

Finally, if MindsDB’s vision to democratize ML sounds exciting, head to our [**community Slack**](https://mindsdb.com/joincommunity), where you can get help and find people to chat about using other available data sources, ML frameworks, or writing a handler to bring your own!