docs/website/docs/Installing.md, before:

---
id: installing-mindsdb
title: Installing MindsDB
---

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you need **[python>=3.7](https://realpython
.com/installing-python/)** or **[Conda Python3](https://www.anaconda.com/download/)**, and make sure you have the **latest pip3**.

```bash
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py | python3
pip3 install --upgrade pip
```

Once you have those, you can install MindsDB.

## On Mac or Linux

It might be needed that you need to install `tkinter` in addition.

- Fedora: `sudo dnf -y install python3-tkinter`
- Debian: `sudo apt-get install python3-tk tk`

Install MindsDB:

```bash
pip3 install mindsdb --user
```

## On Windows 10

Install Conda [download here](https://www.anaconda.com/download/#windows)
and then run the **anaconda prompt**:

```bash
conda install -c peterjc123 pytorch
conda install -c blaze blaze
conda install -c blaze sqlite3
curl -o reqs.txt https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/master/requirements-win.txt
pip install --requirement reqs.txt
pip install mindsdb --no-dependencies
```
# Build and run your docker container

Alternatively, you can also run MindsDB in a docker container. Assuming that you have [docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/) installed in your computer.
On your terminal, you can do the following:

```
sh -c "$(curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/master/distributions/docker/build-docker.sh)"

```

You can also use the Docker image [here](https://github.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/tree/master/distributions/docker)

# Hardware

Due to the fact that pytorch only supports certain instruction sets, mindsdb can only use certain types of GPUs.
Currently, on AWS, `g3` and `p3` instance types should be fine, but `p2` and `g2` instances are not supported

Commit message:

Documentation improvements (#237)
* removed unused Sphinx doc builder config

* correct and imporved the Google colab documnet

* added link to your colab example to the GoogleColab document

* removed old version of Inside MindsdDb

* moved GoogleColab to website docs

* added missing docs to en.json

* Added stuff to the README.md in the docs dir

* Added stuff to the README.md in the docs dir

* fixed inside mindsdb doc

* added title and id to Google colab

* updated installing.md

* correct the configuration values

* Prettified and added disclaimer to Column Metrics docs

* update Readme

docs/website/docs/Installing.md, after:

---
id: installing-mindsdb
title: Installing MindsDB
---

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you need **[python>=3.7](https://realpython
.com/installing-python/)** or **[Conda Python3](https://www.anaconda.com/download/)**, and make sure you have the **latest pip3**.

```bash
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py | python3
pip3 install --upgrade pip
```

Once you have those, you can install MindsDB.

## On Mac or Linux

Install MindsDB:

```bash
pip3 install mindsdb --user
```

It might be needed that you need to install `tkinter` from your package manager in certain situations.

- Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt-get install python3-tk tk`
- Fedora: `sudo dnf -y install python3-tkinter`
- Arch: `sudo pacman -S tk`

## On Windows 10

Install Conda [download here](https://www.anaconda.com/download/#windows)
and then run the **anaconda prompt**:

```bash
conda install -c peterjc123 pytorch
curl -o reqs.txt https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/master/requirements-win.txt
pip install --requirement reqs.txt
pip install mindsdb --no-dependencies
```
# Build and run your docker container

Alternatively, you can also run MindsDB in a docker container. Assuming that you have [docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/) installed in your computer.
On your terminal, you can do the following:

```
sh -c "$(curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/master/distributions/docker/build-docker.sh)"

```

You can also use the Docker image [here](https://github.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/tree/master/distributions/docker)

# Hardware

Due to the fact that pytorch only supports certain instruction sets, mindsdb can only use certain types of GPUs.
Currently, on AWS, `g3` and `p3` instance types should be fine, but `p2` and `g2` instances are not supported
