# MindsDB Entity Contributor License Agreement

Thank you for your interest in contributing to MindsDB.This contributor agreement documents the rights granted by contributors to Us. Tomake this document effective, please sign it and send it to Us by email, following the instructions atcommunity@mindsdb.com. This is a legally binding document, so please read it carefully beforeagreeing to it. The Agreement may cover more than one software project managed by Us.
1. Definitions"You" means any Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Us. "LegalEntity" means an entity which is not a natural person. "Affiliates" means other Legal Entities thatcontrol, are controlled by, or under common control with that Legal Entity. For the purposes ofthis definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction ormanagement of such Legal Entity, whether by contract or otherwise, (ii) ownership of fiftypercent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares or securities which vote to elect the managementor other persons who direct such Legal Entity or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity."Contribution" means any work of authorship that is Submitted by You to Us in which You ownor assert ownership of the Copyright. If You do not own the Copyright in the entire work ofauthorship, please follow the instructions in community@mindsdb.com."Copyright" means all rights protecting works of authorship owned or controlled by You or YourAffiliates, including copyright, moral and neighboring rights, as appropriate, for the full term oftheir existence including any extensions by You."Material" means the work of authorship which is made available by Us to third parties. Whenthis Agreement covers more than one software project, the Material means the work of authorshipto which the Contribution was Submitted. After You Submit the Contribution, it may be includedin the Material."Submit"  means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to Us or ourrepresentatives, including but not limited to electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, Us for the purpose of discussingand improving the Material, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked orotherwise designated in writing by You as "Not a Contribution.""Submission Date" means the date on which You Submit a Contribution to Us."Effective Date" means the date You execute this Agreement or the date You first Submit aContribution to Us, whichever is earlier."Media" means any portion of a Contribution which is not software.
2. Grant of Rights
2.1 Copyright License
(a) You retain ownership of the Copyright in Your Contribution and have the same rights to use orlicense the Contribution which You would have had without entering into the Agreement.
(b) To the maximum extent permitted by the relevant law, You grant to Us a perpetual, worldwide,non-exclusive, transferable, royalty-free, irrevocable license under the Copyright covering the1 of 4Harmony (HA-CLA-E) Version 1.0
Contribution, with the right to sublicense such rights through multiple tiers of sublicensees, toreproduce, modify, display, perform and distribute the Contribution as part of the Material; providedthat this license is conditioned upon compliance with Section 2.3.
2.2 Patent LicenseFor patent claims including, without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims which You orYour Affiliates own, control or have the right to grant, now or in the future, You grant to Us aperpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, transferable, royalty-free, irrevocable patent license, with theright to sublicense these rights to multiple tiers of sublicensees, to make, have made, use, sell, offerfor sale, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution and the Contribution in combination with theMaterial (and portions of such combination). This license is granted only to the extent that theexercise of the licensed rights infringes such patent claims; and provided that this license isconditioned upon compliance with Section 2.3.
2.3 Outbound LicenseAs a condition on the grant of rights in Sections 2.1 and 2.2, We agree to license the Contribution onlyunder the terms of the license or licenses which We are using on the Submission Date for the Material(including any rights to adopt any future version of a license if permitted).In addition, We may use the following licenses for Media in the Contribution:  (including any right toadopt any future version of a license if permitted).
2.4 Moral Rights. If moral rights apply to the Contribution, to the maximum extent permitted by law,You waive and agree not to assert such moral rights against Us or our successors in interest, or any ofour licensees, either direct or indirect.
2.5 Our Rights. You acknowledge that We are not obligated to use Your Contribution as part of theMaterial and may decide to include any Contribution We consider appropriate.
2.6 Reservation of Rights. Any rights not expressly assigned or licensed under this section areexpressly reserved by You.
3. Agreement
You confirm that:
(a) You have the legal authority to enter into this Agreement.
(b) You or Your Affiliates own the Copyright and patent claims covering the Contribution which arerequired to grant the rights under Section 2.
(c) The grant of rights under Section 2 does not violate any grant of rights which You or YourAffiliates have made to third parties.
(d) You have followed the instructions in community@mindsdb.com, if You do not own the Copyrightin the entire work of authorship Submitted.
4. DisclaimerEXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS WARRANTIES IN SECTION 3, THE CONTRIBUTION ISPROVIDED "AS IS". MORE PARTICULARLY, ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIESINCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY,2 of 4Harmony (HA-CLA-E) Version 1.0
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE EXPRESSLYDISCLAIMED BY YOU TO US AND BY US TO YOU. TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SUCHWARRANTIES CANNOT BE DISCLAIMED, SUCH WARRANTY IS LIMITED IN DURATIONTO THE MINIMUM PERIOD PERMITTED BY LAW.
5. Consequential Damage WaiverTO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILLYOU OR US BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF ANTICIPATED SAVINGS,LOSS OF DATA, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL AND EXEMPLARYDAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT REGARDLESS OF THE LEGAL OREQUITABLE THEORY (CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) UPON WHICH THE CLAIM ISBASED.
6. Miscellaneous
6.1 This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Californiaexcluding its conflicts of law provisions. Under certain circumstances, the governing law in thissection might be superseded by the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Saleof Goods ("UN Convention") and the parties intend to avoid the application of the UN Convention tothis Agreement and, thus, exclude the application of the UN Convention in its entirety to thisAgreement.
6.2 This Agreement sets out the entire agreement between You and Us for Your Contributions to Usand overrides all other agreements or understandings.
6.3  If You or We assign the rights or obligations received through this Agreement to a third party, as acondition of the assignment, that third party must agree in writing to abide by all the rights andobligations in the Agreement.
6.4 The failure of either party to require performance by the other party of any provision of thisAgreement in one situation shall not affect the right of a party to require such performance at any timein the future. A waiver of performance under a provision in one situation shall not be considered awaiver of the performance of the provision in the future or a waiver of the provision in its entirety.
6.5 If any provision of this Agreement is found void and unenforceable, such provision will bereplaced to the extent possible with a provision that comes closest to the meaning of the originalprovision and which is enforceable.  The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement shall applynotwithstanding any failure of essential purpose of this Agreement or any limited remedy to themaximum extent possible under law.